SCIM: add docs (#49678)
sourcegraph/sourcegraph: doc/dev/background-information/scim_api.md

# Developing the SCIM API

SCIM is a REST API specification standard for provisioning and deprovisioning users. It can also handle group (de)provisioning, but we don't support that yet.

If you're just getting started with SCIM, watch [this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LBZPPBOdImU) (1.5min) and [this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ID-ApdGu2Hc) (2.5 min) video.

IETF RFCs [7642](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7642), [7643](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7643), and [7644](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7644) are pretty dry, but very useful reference materials.

Our implementation is in [this folder](https://sourcegraph.com/github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/-/tree/enterprise/internal/scim).

> To try it, follow the "How to use" section of our [SCIM admin guide](doc/admin/scim.md), then see the [manual-testing-with-postman](#manual-testing-with-postman) section below to see it in action. It should take you 10–20 minutes to set up everything and see the full CRUD magic happen.

Reviewer: I think linking to the section itself might be more useful.

```suggestion
To try it, follow the [How to use section of our SCIM admin guide](doc/admin/scim.md#how-to-use), then see the [manual-testing-with-postman](#manual-testing-with-postman) section below to see it in action. It should take you 10–20 minutes to set up everything and see the full CRUD magic happen.
```

> Using ngrok is a good idea because it lets you inspect the requests and responses at http://127.0.0.1:4040/inspect/http.

Reviewer: I think we can reword this a little. Also, maybe worth spending some effort on ngrok setup or at least linking some standard ngrok setup? Let's say I never used it and have no idea how I would set it up.

```suggestion
To inspect the requests and responses, you can use ngrok. You can then open your browser at http://127.0.0.1:4040/inspect/http to dive deep into the details.
```

> WARNING: Running the tests and validators referenced on this page will trigger sending live emails. Be sure to set the environment variables `DISABLE_EMAIL_INVITES=true` or `DEBUG_EMAIL_INVITES_MOCK=true` when running live SCIM API calls if you don't want emails to go out.

## Manual testing with Postman

Postman collection for testing SCIM API locally or through ngrok: [scim_postman_collection.json](scim_postman_collection.json). Steps to use it:
- Download and run Postman
- Go to `File | Import...` and import the JSON.
- You can import it into Postman and run the requests from top to bottom.
- Go to `SCIM | Variables` and set your token and optionally your SCIM base URL, in the format of `https://{sourcegraph URL}/.api/scim/v2`.
- For a quick test, run "User create" and "User delete".
- For a complete test, run all requests from top to bottom. They should all pass.

## Validators

> We use three validators: two for Okta and one for Azure AD.

Reviewer: I would also want to understand why we use the validators, e.g. what are they useful for.

1. Okta SPEC test – Follow [this guide](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/scim-provisioning-integration-prepare/main/#test-your-scim-api) to set it up in five minutes. Tests should be green.
2. Okta CRUD test – Follow [this guide](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/scim-provisioning-integration-test/main/) to set up these tests in your Runscope. This also needs access to an Okta application, which you can find [here](https://dev-433675-admin.oktapreview.com/admin/app/dev-433675_k8ssgdevorgsamlscim_1/instance/0oa1l85zn9a0tgzKP0h8/). Log in with shared credentials in 1Password. Tests should be green, except for the last ones that rely on soft deletion which we don't support yet.
3. Azure AD validator – It's [here](https://scimvalidator.microsoft.com). It doesn't have a lot of docs. Just use "Discover my schema", then enter the endpoint (for example, https://sourcegraph.test:3443/search/.api/scim/v2) and the token you have in your settings. It should work right away, and all tests should pass.

## Publishing on Okta

> Our integration is [here](https://oinmanager.okta.com/app-integration/1731). To access this page, you will need a bit of a hackery:

Reviewer: Why are we publishing to Okta? What are we publishing to Okta? :)

Author: The app integration. When I tested SCIM with @milespatton, he pointed out that having an app in the Okta marketplace makes setting up SAML and SCIM very convenient from a tech-ops POV. When we buy new software, Miles kind of expects to see it in the Okta marketplace, and just do a next-next-finish sort of integration with our IdP (Okta).

I admit that adding this is slightly out of scope for the SCIM project, but it had the benefit of allowing us to run an extra set of validators with Okta and helped us catch bugs, so it was already beneficial. But also, based on what Miles said, it seems extremely helpful to admins if we had our stuff in there.
